### Identity Columns

<Callout type="info">
To use this feature you would need to have `drizzle-orm@0.32.0` or higher and `drizzle-kit@0.23.0` or higher
</Callout>

PostgreSQL supports identity columns as a way to automatically generate unique integer values for a column. These values are generated using sequences and can be defined using the GENERATED AS IDENTITY clause.

**Types of Identity Columns**
- `GENERATED ALWAYS AS IDENTITY`: The database always generates a value for the column. Manual insertion or updates to this column are not allowed unless the OVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUE clause is used.
- `GENERATED BY DEFAULT AS IDENTITY`: The database generates a value by default, but manual values can also be inserted or updated. If a manual value is provided, it will be used instead of the system-generated value.

**Key Features**
- Automatic Value Generation: Utilizes sequences to generate unique values for each new row.
- Customizable Sequence Options: You can define starting values, increments, and other sequence options.
- Support for Multiple Identity Columns: PostgreSQL allows more than one identity column per table.

**Limitations**
- Manual Insertion Restrictions: For columns defined with GENERATED ALWAYS AS IDENTITY, manual insertion or updates require the OVERRIDING SYSTEM VALUE clause.
- Sequence Constraints: Identity columns depend on sequences, which must be managed correctly to avoid conflicts or gaps.

**Usage example**
```ts
import { pgTable, integer, text } from 'drizzle-orm/pg-core' 

export const ingredients = pgTable("ingredients", {
  id: integer().primaryKey().generatedAlwaysAsIdentity({ startWith: 1000 }),
  name: text().notNull(),
  description: text(),
});
```

You can specify all properties available for sequences in the `.generatedAlwaysAsIdentity()` function. Additionally, you can specify custom names for these sequences

PostgreSQL docs [reference](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-createtable.html#SQL-CREATETABLE-PARMS-GENERATED-IDENTITY).

